
GGOODDSS                                                       11

     Gods are divided to classes by their power. There are 4
classes: greater gods,  gods,  lesser  gods,  and  demigods.
Each god have their own portfolios and spheres.

11..  TThhee ggrreeaatteerr ggooddss

     These  are  the  mightiest and strongest of gods. Three
moons in the sky (Afay, Kizanth and Narcos)  each  represent
one  of the three greatest gods. The three greatest gods are
Namhas (The Father (Afay)), Lady Aluna (Goddess  of  Delight
(Kizanth)) and Lord Sinister (The Evil Supreme (Narcos)).

Namhas the Father
     Namhas is the creator of world. He is the most powerful
     of all gods and  the  father  of  Sinister  and  Aluna.
     Namhas is the origin of all and his neutral way of see-
     ing world keeps the balance  there.   In  old  writings
     Namhas  is  also  mentioned  as  'The  All-seeing Eye'.
     Namhas is worshipped throughout the known world and his
     powers  are  said to be unlimited. Still, though, he is
     not giving his blessings and powers to those  who  have
     chosen  the  path  of  evil or good since Namhas is the
     Hand of Justice and  Balance.  Namhas  is  the  god  of
     Nature, balance and justice. His alignment is true neu-
     tral.

Lord Sinister the Evil Supreme
     Lord Sinister is the  one  of  the  twins  Namhas  gave
     birth.  He was born as a dragonlike demon and his deeds
     were malevolent and evil from the  day  he  started  to
     live.  His hate towards light, life, love and joy drove
     him deeper into dark thoughts and he  started  to  like
     night and his solitude. His sister, Aluna, is completly
     the opposite of Sinister. Sinister is the god of death,
     night,  darkness,  destruction  and  mayhem. He is also
     lord and creator of many evil  and  dark  beasts  (like
     demons and evil dragons) that dwell in the world. He is
     chaotic evil in alignment.

Aluna
     Aluna is the sister of Sinister and completly the oppo-
     site of him.  Lawful good is her alignment.

22..  TThhee ggooddss

     There  are  gods  that are the offspring of the greater
gods and these are just known as 'the gods'. These are first
generation  immortals after Namhas and his sons that managed
to survive through millenniums. Gods have very  much  influ-
ence  over the world and there are many gods of all kinds of
things like wealth, war, love, diseases, beasts, nature  and
so  on.  Gods are also worshipped around the world and it is
told that many of those have shrines and temples around  the

NNoovveemmbbeerr 2233,, 11999977                                MMaajjiikk MMUURRPPEE

GGOODDSS                                                       22

Ondoval
     Ondoval is the god of murder, darkness, shadows, hunger
     for power, assassination, corruption,  cospiracys, dec-
     eits and generally all intelligent evil.  He is the son
     of Sinister. Ondoval  being  sinisters  first  son  has 
     been a part of the phantheon for a long while. He rules 
     the  dark  shroud of  night that does not only manifest 
     itself in the physical world, but  inside  the minds of 
     the people aswell. Ondoval is the source of  dark plans 
     to gain power and rule the world. Assassins and  murde-
     rers know him by name, and the creatures  of  the night 
     feed from his blood and  presence. Ondoval is extremely
     evil but not  so chaotic.  Being  the god of dark plans
     he is  rather  ordered  and  determined  in  his cause.
     His  greatest  enemy  among  the  phantheon is his aunt
     Aluna. Ondovals alignment is Neutral Evil.

33..  TThhee lleesssseerr ggooddss

     The  lesser  gods are the offspring of the gods or cre-
ations of the greater gods. These  lesser  gods  have  power
over  the  world,  too,  as well as the greater gods and the
gods. Lesser  gods  have  minor  spheres  of  influence  and
smaller  portfolios,  for example like health, happiness and
joy, artifacts, beauty and so  on.  Lesser  gods  have  only
small  temples  or  shrines  as  they  are not known as well
around the world as the greater gods or the gods.

There is no any known lesser gods yet..

44..  TThhee ddeemmii--ggooddss

     Demi-gods are the offspring of the lesser  gods  and/or
demons  and  angels or the creations of the greater gods and
gods. These are not known at all in some places in the world
and  don't  have  shrines  at  all unless some mortal of the
known age have built one.  Demi-gods have  only  very  small
sphere  of  control. Examples are like swords, forests, ser-
pents and snakes, giants and so on.

There is no any known demi-gods yet..

55..  TTeemmpplleess aanndd cchhuurrcchheess

     The greater gods and  the  gods  have  churches/temples
built  somewhere  where  one can go and worship these divine
entities. Depending on the gods and the  greater  gods,  one
may also be able to sacrifice something to them or make rit-
uals in those holy (or unholy) places.  Churches  have  some
priests and clerics that handle common things concerning the
gods or the buildings of those. They also may teach  rituals
and  spells or skills of the religion to those that are mem-
bers of the church.

66..  DDiivviinnee ppooiinnttss

     All immortal beings have only certain amount of special
divine points or DPs.  Only by using divine points gods have
chance to interact with mortals. Every time  when  god  does
something  which  affects  mortals  somehow they need to use
divine points. Gods can gain divine points only  if  mortals
sacrifice valuable items or living beings.  More worshippers
the certain god has, more powerful it is.  Be  careful  with
gods.  Powerful god can rip your soul apart by snapping fin-
gers if you are behaving badly.

NNoovveemmbbeerr 2233,, 11999977                                MMaajjiikk MMUURRPPEE

