
LLAANNGGUUAAGGEESS                                                  11

11..  IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn

In  majik we have maybe a radically new language system. The
idea comes directly from real life. In real  life  there  is
thousands  of  differend languages spoken on earth today. We
however are not going to  construct  that  complex  language
system  here,  but  trolls and noble elves surely wont speak
the same language either. Differend tribes/races have devel-
oped  their  own languages and use them as their native lan-
guage.  There is of course a 'common'  language,  originally
that  of  humans  that  is known virtually by all the races.
With 'lang' command you can see a list of the languages  and
change  your  current  language  to  something you know well
enough to speak. You don't need to change to any language to
be  able  to  hear/understand it, this is automatic.  But if
you wish to speak with an elf in their own language (alande)
type  'lang  alande'  and  you will be speaking alande after
that (assuming that you know it well  enough  to  speak  it)
This  language  system  increases the roleplaying element in
majik and creates a very  real  enviroment  where  differend
races do make a difference. Enjoy.

11..11..  EEllvveenn llaanngguuaaggeess

Alande (elven)
     Originally  Alande  was the language of wood elves, but
     it has became more than that during the ages. Alande is
     the common language of all elven tribes and it's spoken
     alot among non-elven races aswell.  Alande  has  become
     the  second  most  popular language after Sartog. It is
     easy to learn an beautiful in your  ear.  Maybe  alande
     originally  imitated sounds from the animal kind in the
     forests, like the sing of a bird, sound  of  a  stream,
     call  of  a wood grouse.  Beautiful natural voices that
     shaped to a language along the years.

Kvanya (high-elven)
     Kvanya is the language of high or noble elves. This  is
     the main language of lindor and aindar use it alot too.
     Not many non-elves speak Kvanya since it is quite  hard
     to  learn and spoken only by few. Kvanya has become the
     'offical' language of the elven kind.  Many  ceremonies
     and  rituals  are  been spoken in Kvanya and many very-
     important papers writen in this fine  language.  Kvanya
     is  perhaps  the  most beautiful language there is.  It
     flows forvard with a sing-like sound in it. Learning to
     speak Kvanya fluently is a hard task set upon you, very
     few are the non-elven masters of this ancient language.
     Majority  of  old scrolls of the elven kind are written
     in Kvanya. Perhaps Kvanya was more common  language  in
     the ancient times.

DDeecceemmbbeerr 22,, 11999977                                 MMaajjiikk MMUURRPPEE

LLAANNGGUUAAGGEESS                                                  22

Uruzden (dark-elven)
     Language  of the world underneath the earth. Dyanir the
     dark elves Speak their ancient language of Uruzden.  It
     uses  alphabet  not so commonly used in other languages
     like z, d and h alot. Also differend parts  of  a  word
     are often separated with a ' "slashing" character. Most
     famous name in Uruzden is that of  their  capital  city
     "dra'hz'dum"  which  means  quite literally "city under
     the mountain" Uruzden is rarely spoken  by  non-dyanir,
     but  some of the lindor know it atleast a little. Uruz-
     den uses long beautiful runic-writings, these  kind  of
     runes  can  be seen all over the great city dra'hz'dum.
     The runes look almost alike  with  decorative  carvings
     and suchs.

11..22..  DDwwaarrvveenn llaanngguuaaggeess

Draz (dwarven)
     Language  of dwarfs and often known by gnomes, halfling
     and orc also.  Draz is not the most beautiful language.
     It  centers  on short powerful style to say things, but
     often has complicated and rather long words for  names.
     Draz is easy learn at first but a hard language to mas-
     ter.  Draz uses a special set of runic-characters often
     found  in  dwarven craftmanship. There are more than 60
     basic runes and many more to perfect  the  writen  mes-
     sage.  It  it  wise to learn atleast a bit of Draz when
     dealing of trading with the dwarves.

Ohrim (gnomish)
     Ohrim, the rare language of  the  gnomes.  Complex  and
     technically  almost  impossible to learn. Ohrim is very
     hard in need. Special thing about it is that  there  is
     alot  of  words  to describe one single thing. And that
     means the same as a million ways to say what  you  mean
     but  only  few of them are correct. Ohrim might have 40
     differend words for a common  rock.   Words  describing
     the rock in differend times of the day and in differend
     lightning or perhaps even in differend  weather.  Ohrim
     is  very hard to Understand perfectly but you can learn
     to speak some of with some work.  You still are most of
     the  time saying things totally wrong and communication
     with natural born gnomes might still be very diffucult.

Palen (halfling)
     A  rare  language  of  little  halfling.  Spoken almost
     entirely by them alone.  Not many of  the  educated  of
     wisemen  are  intrested  in  day-to-day  affairs of the
     halflings or their own language. Halflings widely  know
     and use Sartog and are maybe even a bit shy using their
     own language. Palen is  happy  and  nice-sounding  lan-
     guage,  it has alot of words for describing how or what
     like something is. The  food  dictionary  of  Palen  is

DDeecceemmbbeerr 22,, 11999977                                 MMaajjiikk MMUURRPPEE

LLAANNGGUUAAGGEESS                                                  33

     known  to  be  very  wide ranging. Palen is know in the
     larger humans cities aswell.

11..33..  DDaarrkk llaanngguuaaggeess

Grahnik (orcish)
     Language of the notorious Orcs. Ugly and mean language.
     Spoken with hate, rage and great disklike of every sin-
     gle word. The elves often say that  Grahnik  tears  you
     ears and it hurts to listen someone speak.  Grahnik has
     been used by Orcs all the way from the  ancient  times,
     it  has  most  likely been developed from simple grunts
     and primitive communication. Grahnik is not  considered
     very  useful  and  is  rarely  known  or spoken by more
     'noble' people. Exspecially elves try to avoid speaking
     Grahnik or even hearing it.

Hgrzag (trollish)
     Big  ugly  trolls developed their own language somewhat
     apart from Grahnik.  To outsider it might  sound  quite
     similar  to  orcs  ear-tearing  Grahnik but technically
     Hgrzag is  very  differend  indeed.  Hgrzag  uses  alot
     longer  words  and  rather complex word-structure. Many
     wonder how could the stupid troll develop language this
     complex. Nothing compared to Ohrim of course but Hgrzag
     does go along with the same level as most languages  of
     humans.  Trolls are quite famous as mercaries and maybe
     because of that Hgrzag is  known  some  in  cities  and
     among the modern civilization.

11..44..  HHuummaanniisshh llaanngguuaaggeess

Sartog (common)
     Sartog  is  the  most  common language in the world. In
     history it was originally  spoken  by  humans  or  some
     tribe of humans that later became the thari. Sartog has
     been spread all over the world and it's spoken  by  all
     the  known races. Language is still a rather young when
     compared to older languages suchs as Kvanya. Sartog  is
     easy  and  simple, it describes things in rather short,
     fast and effective way. Sartog is  used  everywhere  by
     human tribes as a native or half-native language and by
     other races to communicate with  each  other  and  with
     humans.  Sartog is known and taugh almost everywhere.

Choui (yangir)
     Choui  the  language of the east. Spoken by Human tribe
     Yangir as a native language. And used generally by  all
     people of all the races in the eastern region. Choui is
     an average language to learn but it's writing makes  it
     very hard for a non-native to learn. Choui has it's own
     runic-type writing system with symbols.  And  there  is
     just  about  an  infinite  number of symbols. The basic

DDeecceemmbbeerr 22,, 11999977                                 MMaajjiikk MMUURRPPEE

LLAANNGGUUAAGGEESS                                                  44

     alphabet alone makes a long list of symbols.   In  it's
     spoken  form  choui  is fast and maybe confusing to and
     outsider.

Yavahe (innohu)
     Yavahe of the  innohu.  An  ancient  language  of  this
     ancient people.  Spoken in great shaman-rites and ritu-
     als. Yavahe is described as the language of the spirits
     and  the  true  nature.  Innohu itself think that their
     language is even older than the elven  language,  given
     to their mouths by Gods themself. Yavahe is spoken slow
     and strong. Ancient chants and songs  in  Yavahe  sound
     wonderful  even to one that doesn't even know a word of
     it. Yavahe is not so know in cities since innohu  don't
     live  there,  and  they  are feared too much by 'common
     people'.

Ugal (shaolu)
     The jungle language, as other races often describe this
     quite  differend language. Ugal is spoken fast also but
     it contains long words with similar parts and phazes in
     them, making it sound even more faster.  Ugal is spoken
     only in the southern region of  the  world,  very  rare
     northmen  know  any  of  it. People of the Shaolu tribe
     that live in the cities in more northen areas often use
     Sartog  entirely. They only use Ugal among other shaolu
     and therefore it is a bit of a mysterious  language  to
     many.

Tzhimsal (ayura)
     Tzhimsal of the ayura, a language that tries to express
     things in a careful and gentle way. Using little  power
     and  heavy sounding words.  The ayura always speak Sar-
     tog or the navite-language of their guest  or  of  that
     land  they  are  currenly  in. They use Tzhimsal almost
     only to speak with themselfs, some say that maybe  they
     are too shy to speak things others could not understand
     in a foreign company.  Tzhimsal is therefore  also  not
     widely known but studied by few scholars.

Yiunda (yamar)
     Language of the Yamar half elves. Also a very beautiful
     language. Many debate over the fact that which language
     Kvanya  or  Yiunda  is more beautiful. Yiunda uses slow
     long way of saying things also in sing-like  form  that
     rises  and lovers just like singing. It also uses high-
     pitch voices and generally way more higher voices  than
     other languages.  Maybe because the natural voice of an
     Yamar is quite high sounding.  Yiunda is  known  every-
     where  where  the  Yamar dwell since they speak it very
     openly often they even try to communicate  with  Yiunda
     with  a  stranger  even he would not know a word. Yamar
     love their language.

DDeecceemmbbeerr 22,, 11999977                                 MMaajjiikk MMUURRPPEE

LLAANNGGUUAAGGEESS                                                  55

DDeecceemmbbeerr 22,, 11999977                                 MMaajjiikk MMUURRPPEE

