
Newbie(1)               MAJIK NEWBIE HELP               Newbie(1)

GGEENNEERRAALL
       First  and  foremost Majik is a roleplaying environment so
       roleplaying is enforced at all times.  Currently Majik  is
       in the Alpha phase of developtment(help alpha).

SSTTAARRTTIINNGG OOUUTT
       The  first  question  any  newbie asks when first in a new
       environment is, "Where do I start?"  Well, in  Majik  this
       is  already  decided  for  you.   You will start in a pre-
       selected location based upon your race  and  tribe.   Each
       tribe  in  the Majik realm has its own areas in which each
       new member of its tribe is born.  It is from this homeland
       in which you will begin your adventure.

HHOOMMEELLAANNDDSS
       In  this  homeland  it will be important for any newbie to
       make interactions  and  relationships  with  other  player
       characters and learn their way around.  Your homeland will
       come as an important part of your life as it should be the
       place  or  area  you  know  best.   Each  homeland will be
       designed to have its own economy and government  by  which
       all its inhabitants shall live.

EECCOONNOOMMYY
       The  economy  in Majik is, most likely, different than any
       other mud or murpe you have ever played.   Here  in  Majik
       are  real economies in which the players must help to sus-
       tain.  By doing such things as buying items from the local
       stores  and  from  the local farmers.  All of these things
       will be run by player characters and not by NPCs, for  the
       most part.

GGOOVVEERRNNMMEENNTT
       Each  homeland,  and  other areas perhaps, will have their
       own system of government.  This means that  when  in  this
       homeland's public domain you must adhere to the law of the
       land or suffer the penalties.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       alpha(1),roleplaying(1),rules(1)

Majik                       Feb 9 1998                          1

